Drider Vampire
Large Undead
Hit Dice: 6d12 (39 hp)
Initiative: +8
Speed: 30 ft., climb 15 ft.
AC: 25 (–1 size, +4 Dex, +12 natural), touch 13, flat-footed
21
Attacks: 2 claws +7 melee and bite +5 melee
Damage: Claw 1d8+5 plus energy drain, bite 1d6+2
Face/Reach: 10 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft.
Special Attacks: Attach, blood drain, energy drain, spell-like
abilities, spells, spider mastery
Special Qualities: Alternate form, cold resistance 20, DR
15/+1, electricity resistance 20, fast healing 5, gaseous
form, SR 19, turn resistance +4
Saves: Fort +2, Ref +8, Will +9
Abilities: Str 21, Dex 19, Con —, Int 17, Wis 18, Cha 20
Skills: Bluff +13, Climb +17, Concentration +7, Hide +18,
Listen +20, Move Silently +22, Search +11, Sense Motive
+12, Spellcraft +12, Spot +23
Feats: Alertness, Ambidexterity, Combat Casting, Combat
Reflexes, Dodge, Improved Initiative, Lightning
Reflexes, Mobility, Multiattack
Climate/Terrain: Underground
Organization: Solitary
Challenge Rating: 9
Treasure: Double standard
Alignment: Always chaotic evil
Advancement: By character class

These undead abominations are
creatures of pure hatred and
malice, filled with loathing for
everything that lives. Though a
drider vampire drinks blood and has
other abilities that resemble those of
a common humanoid vampire, the
two are actually quite different crea-
tures.
A drider vampire looks much as
it did in life, with the head and torso
of a drow and the lower body of a giant
spider. Its hands are wickedly clawed, and
from its mouth protrude huge fangs like
those of a venomous spider.

Combat
A drider vampire’s abilities are a mixture of re-
tained drider traits and special qualities similar
Drider Vampire
to those of a common vampire. Unlike hu-
manoid vampires, the drider vampire has a dan-
gerous bite attack and can easily drain blood from a victim
without resorting to grappling. A successful hit from one of
its clawed hand drains life energy like a vampire’s slam
attack.

Attach (Ex): If a drider vampire hits with its bite attack, it
latches onto the opponent’s body and begins draining blood the
same round. An attached drider vampire’s AC is 21.
Blood Drain (Ex): A drider vampire drains blood, dealing
1d4 points of Constitution drain immediately upon attaching
to its opponent. Each round thereafter that it remains at-
tached, it automatically deals an additional 1d4 points of Con-
stitution drain.

Energy Drain (Su): Any living creature hit by a drider vam-
pire’s claw attack must succeed at a Fortitude saving throw
(DC 18) or gain one negative level. For each negative level be-
stowed, the drider vampire heals 5 points of damage. If the
amount of healing is more than the damage the creature has
taken, it gains any excess as temporary hit points. If the nega-
tive level has not been removed (with a spell such as restora-
tion) before 24 hours have passed, the afflicted opponent must
succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 18) to remove it. Failure
means the opponent’s level (or Hit Dice) is reduced by one.
Spell-Like Abilities: 1/day—dancing lights, darkness, detect
chaos, detect evil, detect good, detect law, detect magic, faerie
fire, levitate. Caster level 6th; save DC 15 + spell level.
Spells: A drider vampire retains all the spellcasting abilities
it had in life. Most driders are 6th-level clerics, wizards, or
sorcerers. Drider vampire clerics usually worship Kiaransalee
(even though they served Lolth in life), and they choose their
domains from Chaos, Drow, Evil, Retribution, and Undeath.

Spider Mastery (Su): A drider vampire can compel a spi-
derkind creature (see Spiderkind sidebar) to obey its mental com-
mands. An unwilling, intelligent target that fails a Will saving
throw (DC 18) obeys one command as if under a suggestion spell.
A successful save allows the creature to
resist the command, but the
drider vampire can at-
tempt to command it
again next round. Command-
ing an unwilling target requires a
standard action; otherwise, issuing
commands is a free action.
Alternate Form (Su): A drider vampire
can assume the shape of a monstrous
spider of any size from Tiny to Large
as a standard action. This ability func-
tions like a polymorph self spell (caster
level 12th). The creature can remain in
spider form until it chooses to revert
to its natural form or until the next
sunrise.
Skills: A drider vampire gains skills as an aberration. It re-
ceives a +8 racial bonus on Bluff, Hide, Listen, Move Silently,
Search, Sense Motive, and Spot checks.
